Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-compressed.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

******************
Compressed Formats
******************


.. _compressed-formats:

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{6.6cm}|p{2.2cm}|p{8.7cm}|

.. flat-table:: Compressed Image Formats
    :header-rows:  1
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths:       3 1 4

    * - Identifier
      - Code
      - Details
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-JPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_JPEG``
      - 'JPEG'
      - TBD. See also :ref:`VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP <VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP>`,
	:ref:`VIDIOC_S_JPEGCOMP <VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP>`.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG``
      - 'MPEG'
      - MPEG multiplexed stream. The actual format is determined by
	extended control ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_STREAM_TYPE``, see
	:ref:`mpeg-control-id`.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264``
      - 'H264'
      - H264 video elementary stream with start codes.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-NO-SC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_NO_SC``
      - 'AVC1'
      - H264 video elementary stream without start codes.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-MVC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_MVC``
      - 'M264'
      - H264 MVC video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H263:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H263``
      - 'H263'
      - H263 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG1:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG1``
      - 'MPG1'
      - MPEG1 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG2:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG2``
      - 'MPG2'
      - MPEG2 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG4:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG4``
      - 'MPG4'
      - MPEG4 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-XVID:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_XVID``
      - 'XVID'
      - Xvid video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VC1-ANNEX-G:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VC1_ANNEX_G``
      - 'VC1G'
      - VC1, SMPTE 421M Annex G compliant stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VC1-ANNEX-L:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VC1_ANNEX_L``
      - 'VC1L'
      - VC1, SMPTE 421M Annex L compliant stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP8:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP8``
      - 'VP80'
      - VP8 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP9:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP9``
      - 'VP90'
      - VP9 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-HEVC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_HEVC``
      - 'HEVC'
      - HEVC/H.265 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-FWHT:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_FWHT``
      - 'FWHT'
      - Video elementary stream using a codec based on the Fast Walsh Hadamard
        Transform. This codec is implemented by the vicodec ('Virtual Codec')
	driver. See the vicodec-codec.h header for more details.

Commit message:

media: v4l: Add definitions for MPEG-2 slice format and metadata
jira LE-1907
Rebuild_History Non-Buildable kernel-4.18.0-240.el8
commit-author Paul Kocialkowski <paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
commit c27bb30e7b6d385c5bff26406089377d678f1a1d

Stateless video decoding engines require both the MPEG-2 slices and
associated metadata from the video stream in order to decode frames.

This introduces definitions for a new pixel format, describing buffers
with MPEG-2 slice data, as well as control structure sfor passing the
frame metadata to drivers.

This is based on work from both Florent Revest and Hugues Fruchet.

	Signed-off-by: Paul Kocialkowski <paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
	Signed-off-by: Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@bootlin.com>
	Signed-off-by: Hans Verkuil <hans.verkuil@cisco.com>
	Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab+samsung@kernel.org>
(cherry picked from commit c27bb30e7b6d385c5bff26406089377d678f1a1d)
	Signed-off-by: Jonathan Maple <jmaple@ciq.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-compressed.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

******************
Compressed Formats
******************


.. _compressed-formats:

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{6.6cm}|p{2.2cm}|p{8.7cm}|

.. flat-table:: Compressed Image Formats
    :header-rows:  1
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths:       3 1 4

    * - Identifier
      - Code
      - Details
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-JPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_JPEG``
      - 'JPEG'
      - TBD. See also :ref:`VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP <VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP>`,
	:ref:`VIDIOC_S_JPEGCOMP <VIDIOC_G_JPEGCOMP>`.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG``
      - 'MPEG'
      - MPEG multiplexed stream. The actual format is determined by
	extended control ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_STREAM_TYPE``, see
	:ref:`mpeg-control-id`.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264``
      - 'H264'
      - H264 video elementary stream with start codes.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-NO-SC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_NO_SC``
      - 'AVC1'
      - H264 video elementary stream without start codes.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H264-MVC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H264_MVC``
      - 'M264'
      - H264 MVC video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-H263:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_H263``
      - 'H263'
      - H263 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG1:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG1``
      - 'MPG1'
      - MPEG1 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG2:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG2``
      - 'MPG2'
      - MPEG2 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG2-SLICE:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG2_SLICE``
      - 'MG2S'
      - MPEG-2 parsed slice data, as extracted from the MPEG-2 bitstream.
	This format is adapted for stateless video decoders that implement a
	MPEG-2 pipeline (using the :ref:`codec` and :ref:`media-request-api`).
	Metadata associated with the frame to decode is required to be passed
	through the ``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_MPEG2_SLICE_PARAMS`` control and
	quantization matrices can optionally be specified through the
	``V4L2_CID_MPEG_VIDEO_MPEG2_QUANTIZATION`` control.
	See the :ref:`associated Codec Control IDs <v4l2-mpeg-mpeg2>`.
	Exactly one output and one capture buffer must be provided for use with
	this pixel format. The output buffer must contain the appropriate number
	of macroblocks to decode a full corresponding frame to the matching
	capture buffer.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MPEG4:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MPEG4``
      - 'MPG4'
      - MPEG4 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-XVID:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_XVID``
      - 'XVID'
      - Xvid video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VC1-ANNEX-G:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VC1_ANNEX_G``
      - 'VC1G'
      - VC1, SMPTE 421M Annex G compliant stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VC1-ANNEX-L:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VC1_ANNEX_L``
      - 'VC1L'
      - VC1, SMPTE 421M Annex L compliant stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP8:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP8``
      - 'VP80'
      - VP8 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-VP9:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_VP9``
      - 'VP90'
      - VP9 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-HEVC:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_HEVC``
      - 'HEVC'
      - HEVC/H.265 video elementary stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-FWHT:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_FWHT``
      - 'FWHT'
      - Video elementary stream using a codec based on the Fast Walsh Hadamard
        Transform. This codec is implemented by the vicodec ('Virtual Codec')
	driver. See the vicodec-codec.h header for more details.
