Documentation/virt/kvm/devices/s390_flic.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

====================================
FLIC (floating interrupt controller)
====================================

FLIC handles floating (non per-cpu) interrupts, i.e. I/O, service and some
machine check interruptions. All interrupts are stored in a per-vm list of
pending interrupts. FLIC performs operations on this list.

Only one FLIC instance may be instantiated.

FLIC provides support to
- add interrupts (KVM_DEV_FLIC_ENQUEUE)
- inspect currently pending interrupts (KVM_FLIC_GET_ALL_IRQS)
- purge all pending floating interrupts (KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IRQS)
- purge one pending floating I/O interrupt (KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IO_IRQ)
- enable/disable for the guest transparent async page faults
- register and modify adapter interrupt sources (KVM_DEV_FLIC_ADAPTER_*)
- modify AIS (adapter-interruption-suppression) mode state (KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM)
- inject adapter interrupts on a specified adapter (KVM_DEV_FLIC_AIRQ_INJECT)
- get/set all AIS mode states (KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM_ALL)

Groups:
  KVM_DEV_FLIC_ENQUEUE
    Passes a buffer and length into the kernel which are then injected into
    the list of pending interrupts.
    attr->addr contains the pointer to the buffer and attr->attr contains
    the length of the buffer.
    The format of the data structure kvm_s390_irq as it is copied from userspace
    is defined in usr/include/linux/kvm.h.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_GET_ALL_IRQS
    Copies all floating interrupts into a buffer provided by userspace.
    When the buffer is too small it returns -ENOMEM, which is the indication
    for userspace to try again with a bigger buffer.

    -ENOBUFS is returned when the allocation of a kernelspace buffer has
    failed.

    -EFAULT is returned when copying data to userspace failed.
    All interrupts remain pending, i.e. are not deleted from the list of
    currently pending interrupts.
    attr->addr contains the userspace address of the buffer into which all
    interrupt data will be copied.
    attr->attr contains the size of the buffer in bytes.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IRQS
    Simply deletes all elements from the list of currently pending floating
    interrupts.  No interrupts are injected into the guest.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IO_IRQ
    Deletes one (if any) I/O interrupt for a subchannel identified by the
    subsystem identification word passed via the buffer specified by
    attr->addr (address) and attr->attr (length).

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_APF_ENABLE
    Enables async page faults for the guest. So in case of a major page fault
    the host is allowed to handle this async and continues the guest.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_APF_DISABLE_WAIT
    Disables async page faults for the guest and waits until already pending
    async page faults are done. This is necessary to trigger a completion interrupt
    for every init interrupt before migrating the interrupt list.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_ADAPTER_REGISTER
    Register an I/O adapter interrupt source. Takes a kvm_s390_io_adapter
    describing the adapter to register::

	struct kvm_s390_io_adapter {
		__u32 id;
		__u8 isc;
		__u8 maskable;
		__u8 swap;
		__u8 flags;
	};

   id contains the unique id for the adapter, isc the I/O interruption subclass
   to use, maskable whether this adapter may be masked (interrupts turned off),
   swap whether the indicators need to be byte swapped, and flags contains
   further characteristics of the adapter.

   Currently defined values for 'flags' are:

   - KVM_S390_ADAPTER_SUPPRESSIBLE: adapter is subject to AIS
     (adapter-interrupt-suppression) facility. This flag only has an effect if
     the AIS capability is enabled.

   Unknown flag values are ignored.


  KVM_DEV_FLIC_ADAPTER_MODIFY
    Modifies attributes of an existing I/O adapter interrupt source. Takes
    a kvm_s390_io_adapter_req specifying the adapter and the operation::

	struct kvm_s390_io_adapter_req {
		__u32 id;
		__u8 type;
		__u8 mask;
		__u16 pad0;
		__u64 addr;
	};

    id specifies the adapter and type the operation. The supported operations
    are:

    KVM_S390_IO_ADAPTER_MASK
      mask or unmask the adapter, as specified in mask

    KVM_S390_IO_ADAPTER_MAP
      This is now a no-op. The mapping is purely done by the irq route.
    KVM_S390_IO_ADAPTER_UNMAP
      This is now a no-op. The mapping is purely done by the irq route.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM
    modify the adapter-interruption-suppression mode for a given isc if the
    AIS capability is enabled. Takes a kvm_s390_ais_req describing::

	struct kvm_s390_ais_req {
		__u8 isc;
		__u16 mode;
	};

    isc contains the target I/O interruption subclass, mode the target
    adapter-interruption-suppression mode. The following modes are
    currently supported:

    - KVM_S390_AIS_MODE_ALL: ALL-Interruptions Mode, i.e. airq injection
      is always allowed;
    - KVM_S390_AIS_MODE_SINGLE: SINGLE-Interruption Mode, i.e. airq
      injection is only allowed once and the following adapter interrupts
      will be suppressed until the mode is set again to ALL-Interruptions
      or SINGLE-Interruption mode.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_AIRQ_INJECT
    Inject adapter interrupts on a specified adapter.
    attr->attr contains the unique id for the adapter, which allows for
    adapter-specific checks and actions.
    For adapters subject to AIS, handle the airq injection suppression for
    an isc according to the adapter-interruption-suppression mode on condition
    that the AIS capability is enabled.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM_ALL
    Gets or sets the adapter-interruption-suppression mode for all ISCs. Takes
    a kvm_s390_ais_all describing::

	struct kvm_s390_ais_all {
	       __u8 simm; /* Single-Interruption-Mode mask */
	       __u8 nimm; /* No-Interruption-Mode mask *
	};

    simm contains Single-Interruption-Mode mask for all ISCs, nimm contains
    No-Interruption-Mode mask for all ISCs. Each bit in simm and nimm corresponds
    to an ISC (MSB0 bit 0 to ISC 0 and so on). The combination of simm bit and
    nimm bit presents AIS mode for a ISC.

    KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM_ALL is indicated by KVM_CAP_S390_AIS_MIGRATION.

Note: The KVM_SET_DEVICE_ATTR/KVM_GET_DEVICE_ATTR device ioctls executed on
FLIC with an unknown group or attribute gives the error code EINVAL (instead of
ENXIO, as specified in the API documentation). It is not possible to conclude
that a FLIC operation is unavailable based on the error code resulting from a
usage attempt.

.. note:: The KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IO_IRQ ioctl will return EINVAL in case a
	  zero schid is specified.

Commit message:

KVM: s390: Reject setting flic pfault attributes on ucontrol VMs
JIRA: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHEL-85180

commit df989238fa46039393f0af5cfb93a863a233c061
Author: Christoph Schlameuss <schlameuss@linux.ibm.com>
Date:   Mon Dec 16 10:21:35 2024 +0100

    KVM: s390: Reject setting flic pfault attributes on ucontrol VMs

    Prevent null pointer dereference when processing the
    KVM_DEV_FLIC_APF_ENABLE and KVM_DEV_FLIC_APF_DISABLE_WAIT ioctls in the
    interrupt controller.

    Fixes: 3c038e6be0e2 ("KVM: async_pf: Async page fault support on s390")
    Reported-by: Claudio Imbrenda <imbrenda@linux.ibm.com>
    Signed-off-by: Christoph Schlameuss <schlameuss@linux.ibm.com>
    Reviewed-by: Hariharan Mari <hari55@linux.ibm.com>
    Reviewed-by: Claudio Imbrenda <imbrenda@linux.ibm.com>
    Link: https://lore.kernel.org/r/20241216092140.329196-2-schlameuss@linux.ibm.com
    Message-ID: <20241216092140.329196-2-schlameuss@linux.ibm.com>
    Signed-off-by: Claudio Imbrenda <imbrenda@linux.ibm.com>

Signed-off-by: Thomas Huth <thuth@redhat.com>

Documentation/virt/kvm/devices/s390_flic.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

====================================
FLIC (floating interrupt controller)
====================================

FLIC handles floating (non per-cpu) interrupts, i.e. I/O, service and some
machine check interruptions. All interrupts are stored in a per-vm list of
pending interrupts. FLIC performs operations on this list.

Only one FLIC instance may be instantiated.

FLIC provides support to
- add interrupts (KVM_DEV_FLIC_ENQUEUE)
- inspect currently pending interrupts (KVM_FLIC_GET_ALL_IRQS)
- purge all pending floating interrupts (KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IRQS)
- purge one pending floating I/O interrupt (KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IO_IRQ)
- enable/disable for the guest transparent async page faults
- register and modify adapter interrupt sources (KVM_DEV_FLIC_ADAPTER_*)
- modify AIS (adapter-interruption-suppression) mode state (KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM)
- inject adapter interrupts on a specified adapter (KVM_DEV_FLIC_AIRQ_INJECT)
- get/set all AIS mode states (KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM_ALL)

Groups:
  KVM_DEV_FLIC_ENQUEUE
    Passes a buffer and length into the kernel which are then injected into
    the list of pending interrupts.
    attr->addr contains the pointer to the buffer and attr->attr contains
    the length of the buffer.
    The format of the data structure kvm_s390_irq as it is copied from userspace
    is defined in usr/include/linux/kvm.h.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_GET_ALL_IRQS
    Copies all floating interrupts into a buffer provided by userspace.
    When the buffer is too small it returns -ENOMEM, which is the indication
    for userspace to try again with a bigger buffer.

    -ENOBUFS is returned when the allocation of a kernelspace buffer has
    failed.

    -EFAULT is returned when copying data to userspace failed.
    All interrupts remain pending, i.e. are not deleted from the list of
    currently pending interrupts.
    attr->addr contains the userspace address of the buffer into which all
    interrupt data will be copied.
    attr->attr contains the size of the buffer in bytes.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IRQS
    Simply deletes all elements from the list of currently pending floating
    interrupts.  No interrupts are injected into the guest.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IO_IRQ
    Deletes one (if any) I/O interrupt for a subchannel identified by the
    subsystem identification word passed via the buffer specified by
    attr->addr (address) and attr->attr (length).

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_APF_ENABLE
    Enables async page faults for the guest. So in case of a major page fault
    the host is allowed to handle this async and continues the guest.

    -EINVAL is returned when called on the FLIC of a ucontrol VM.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_APF_DISABLE_WAIT
    Disables async page faults for the guest and waits until already pending
    async page faults are done. This is necessary to trigger a completion interrupt
    for every init interrupt before migrating the interrupt list.

    -EINVAL is returned when called on the FLIC of a ucontrol VM.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_ADAPTER_REGISTER
    Register an I/O adapter interrupt source. Takes a kvm_s390_io_adapter
    describing the adapter to register::

	struct kvm_s390_io_adapter {
		__u32 id;
		__u8 isc;
		__u8 maskable;
		__u8 swap;
		__u8 flags;
	};

   id contains the unique id for the adapter, isc the I/O interruption subclass
   to use, maskable whether this adapter may be masked (interrupts turned off),
   swap whether the indicators need to be byte swapped, and flags contains
   further characteristics of the adapter.

   Currently defined values for 'flags' are:

   - KVM_S390_ADAPTER_SUPPRESSIBLE: adapter is subject to AIS
     (adapter-interrupt-suppression) facility. This flag only has an effect if
     the AIS capability is enabled.

   Unknown flag values are ignored.


  KVM_DEV_FLIC_ADAPTER_MODIFY
    Modifies attributes of an existing I/O adapter interrupt source. Takes
    a kvm_s390_io_adapter_req specifying the adapter and the operation::

	struct kvm_s390_io_adapter_req {
		__u32 id;
		__u8 type;
		__u8 mask;
		__u16 pad0;
		__u64 addr;
	};

    id specifies the adapter and type the operation. The supported operations
    are:

    KVM_S390_IO_ADAPTER_MASK
      mask or unmask the adapter, as specified in mask

    KVM_S390_IO_ADAPTER_MAP
      This is now a no-op. The mapping is purely done by the irq route.
    KVM_S390_IO_ADAPTER_UNMAP
      This is now a no-op. The mapping is purely done by the irq route.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM
    modify the adapter-interruption-suppression mode for a given isc if the
    AIS capability is enabled. Takes a kvm_s390_ais_req describing::

	struct kvm_s390_ais_req {
		__u8 isc;
		__u16 mode;
	};

    isc contains the target I/O interruption subclass, mode the target
    adapter-interruption-suppression mode. The following modes are
    currently supported:

    - KVM_S390_AIS_MODE_ALL: ALL-Interruptions Mode, i.e. airq injection
      is always allowed;
    - KVM_S390_AIS_MODE_SINGLE: SINGLE-Interruption Mode, i.e. airq
      injection is only allowed once and the following adapter interrupts
      will be suppressed until the mode is set again to ALL-Interruptions
      or SINGLE-Interruption mode.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_AIRQ_INJECT
    Inject adapter interrupts on a specified adapter.
    attr->attr contains the unique id for the adapter, which allows for
    adapter-specific checks and actions.
    For adapters subject to AIS, handle the airq injection suppression for
    an isc according to the adapter-interruption-suppression mode on condition
    that the AIS capability is enabled.

  KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM_ALL
    Gets or sets the adapter-interruption-suppression mode for all ISCs. Takes
    a kvm_s390_ais_all describing::

	struct kvm_s390_ais_all {
	       __u8 simm; /* Single-Interruption-Mode mask */
	       __u8 nimm; /* No-Interruption-Mode mask *
	};

    simm contains Single-Interruption-Mode mask for all ISCs, nimm contains
    No-Interruption-Mode mask for all ISCs. Each bit in simm and nimm corresponds
    to an ISC (MSB0 bit 0 to ISC 0 and so on). The combination of simm bit and
    nimm bit presents AIS mode for a ISC.

    KVM_DEV_FLIC_AISM_ALL is indicated by KVM_CAP_S390_AIS_MIGRATION.

Note: The KVM_SET_DEVICE_ATTR/KVM_GET_DEVICE_ATTR device ioctls executed on
FLIC with an unknown group or attribute gives the error code EINVAL (instead of
ENXIO, as specified in the API documentation). It is not possible to conclude
that a FLIC operation is unavailable based on the error code resulting from a
usage attempt.

.. note:: The KVM_DEV_FLIC_CLEAR_IO_IRQ ioctl will return EINVAL in case a
	  zero schid is specified.
