Documentation/x86/amd-memory-encryption.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

=====================
AMD Memory Encryption
=====================

Secure Memory Encryption (SME) and Secure Encrypted Virtualization (SEV) are
features found on AMD processors.

SME provides the ability to mark individual pages of memory as encrypted using
the standard x86 page tables.  A page that is marked encrypted will be
automatically decrypted when read from DRAM and encrypted when written to
DRAM.  SME can therefore be used to protect the contents of DRAM from physical
attacks on the system.

SEV enables running encrypted virtual machines (VMs) in which the code and data
of the guest VM are secured so that a decrypted version is available only
within the VM itself. SEV guest VMs have the concept of private and shared
memory. Private memory is encrypted with the guest-specific key, while shared
memory may be encrypted with hypervisor key. When SME is enabled, the hypervisor
key is the same key which is used in SME.

A page is encrypted when a page table entry has the encryption bit set (see
below on how to determine its position).  The encryption bit can also be
specified in the cr3 register, allowing the PGD table to be encrypted. Each
successive level of page tables can also be encrypted by setting the encryption
bit in the page table entry that points to the next table. This allows the full
page table hierarchy to be encrypted. Note, this means that just because the
encryption bit is set in cr3, doesn't imply the full hierarchy is encrypted.
Each page table entry in the hierarchy needs to have the encryption bit set to
achieve that. So, theoretically, you could have the encryption bit set in cr3
so that the PGD is encrypted, but not set the encryption bit in the PGD entry
for a PUD which results in the PUD pointed to by that entry to not be
encrypted.

When SEV is enabled, instruction pages and guest page tables are always treated
as private. All the DMA operations inside the guest must be performed on shared
memory. Since the memory encryption bit is controlled by the guest OS when it
is operating in 64-bit or 32-bit PAE mode, in all other modes the SEV hardware
forces the memory encryption bit to 1.

Support for SME and SEV can be determined through the CPUID instruction. The
CPUID function 0x8000001f reports information related to SME::

	0x8000001f[eax]:
		Bit[0] indicates support for SME
		Bit[1] indicates support for SEV
	0x8000001f[ebx]:
		Bits[5:0]  pagetable bit number used to activate memory
			   encryption
		Bits[11:6] reduction in physical address space, in bits, when
			   memory encryption is enabled (this only affects
			   system physical addresses, not guest physical
			   addresses)

If support for SME is present, MSR 0xc00100010 (MSR_AMD64_SYSCFG) can be used to
determine if SME is enabled and/or to enable memory encryption::

	0xc0010010:
		Bit[23]   0 = memory encryption features are disabled
			  1 = memory encryption features are enabled

If SEV is supported, MSR 0xc0010131 (MSR_AMD64_SEV) can be used to determine if
SEV is active::

	0xc0010131:
		Bit[0]	  0 = memory encryption is not active
			  1 = memory encryption is active

Linux relies on BIOS to set this bit if BIOS has determined that the reduction
in the physical address space as a result of enabling memory encryption (see
CPUID information above) will not conflict with the address space resource
requirements for the system.  If this bit is not set upon Linux startup then
Linux itself will not set it and memory encryption will not be possible.

The state of SME in the Linux kernel can be documented as follows:

	- Supported:
	  The CPU supports SME (determined through CPUID instruction).

	- Enabled:
	  Supported and bit 23 of MSR_AMD64_SYSCFG is set.

	- Active:
	  Supported, Enabled and the Linux kernel is actively applying
	  the encryption bit to page table entries (the SME mask in the
	  kernel is non-zero).

SME can also be enabled and activated in the BIOS. If SME is enabled and
activated in the BIOS, then all memory accesses will be encrypted and it
will not be necessary to activate the Linux memory encryption support.

If the BIOS merely enables SME (sets bit 23 of the MSR_AMD64_SYSCFG),
then memory encryption can be enabled by supplying mem_encrypt=on on the
kernel command line.  However, if BIOS does not enable SME, then Linux
will not be able to activate memory encryption, even if configured to do
so by default or the mem_encrypt=on command line parameter is specified.

Secure Nested Paging (SNP)
==========================

SEV-SNP introduces new features (SEV_FEATURES[1:63]) which can be enabled
by the hypervisor for security enhancements. Some of these features need
guest side implementation to function correctly. The below table lists the
expected guest behavior with various possible scenarios of guest/hypervisor
SNP feature support.

+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
| Feature Enabled | Guest needs   | Guest has     | Guest boot       |
| by the HV       | implementation| implementation| behaviour        |
+=================+===============+===============+==================+
|      No         |      No       |      No       |     Boot         |
|                 |               |               |                  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      No         |      Yes      |      No       |     Boot         |
|                 |               |               |                  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      No         |      Yes      |      Yes      |     Boot         |
|                 |               |               |                  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      Yes        |      No       |      No       | Boot with        |
|                 |               |               | feature enabled  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      Yes        |      Yes      |      No       | Graceful boot    |
|                 |               |               | failure          |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      Yes        |      Yes      |      Yes      | Boot with        |
|                 |               |               | feature enabled  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+

More details in AMD64 APM[1] Vol 2: 15.34.10 SEV_STATUS MSR

[1] https://www.amd.com/content/dam/amd/en/documents/processor-tech-docs/programmer-references/24593.pdf

Commit message:

x86/sev: Check for the presence of an SVSM in the SNP secrets page
jira LE-2985
commit-author Tom Lendacky <thomas.lendacky@amd.com>
commit 878e70dbd26e234e6e6941dac3a233af6f632184

During early boot phases, check for the presence of an SVSM when running
as an SEV-SNP guest.

An SVSM is present if not running at VMPL0 and the 64-bit value at offset
0x148 into the secrets page is non-zero. If an SVSM is present, save the
SVSM Calling Area address (CAA), located at offset 0x150 into the secrets
page, and set the VMPL level of the guest, which should be non-zero, to
indicate the presence of an SVSM.

  [ bp: Touchups. ]

	Signed-off-by: Tom Lendacky <thomas.lendacky@amd.com>
	Signed-off-by: Borislav Petkov (AMD) <bp@alien8.de>
Link: https://lore.kernel.org/r/9d3fe161be93d4ea60f43c2a3f2c311fe708b63b.1717600736.git.thomas.lendacky@amd.com
(cherry picked from commit 878e70dbd26e234e6e6941dac3a233af6f632184)
	Signed-off-by: Sultan Alsawaf <sultan@ciq.com>

Documentation/x86/amd-memory-encryption.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

=====================
AMD Memory Encryption
=====================

Secure Memory Encryption (SME) and Secure Encrypted Virtualization (SEV) are
features found on AMD processors.

SME provides the ability to mark individual pages of memory as encrypted using
the standard x86 page tables.  A page that is marked encrypted will be
automatically decrypted when read from DRAM and encrypted when written to
DRAM.  SME can therefore be used to protect the contents of DRAM from physical
attacks on the system.

SEV enables running encrypted virtual machines (VMs) in which the code and data
of the guest VM are secured so that a decrypted version is available only
within the VM itself. SEV guest VMs have the concept of private and shared
memory. Private memory is encrypted with the guest-specific key, while shared
memory may be encrypted with hypervisor key. When SME is enabled, the hypervisor
key is the same key which is used in SME.

A page is encrypted when a page table entry has the encryption bit set (see
below on how to determine its position).  The encryption bit can also be
specified in the cr3 register, allowing the PGD table to be encrypted. Each
successive level of page tables can also be encrypted by setting the encryption
bit in the page table entry that points to the next table. This allows the full
page table hierarchy to be encrypted. Note, this means that just because the
encryption bit is set in cr3, doesn't imply the full hierarchy is encrypted.
Each page table entry in the hierarchy needs to have the encryption bit set to
achieve that. So, theoretically, you could have the encryption bit set in cr3
so that the PGD is encrypted, but not set the encryption bit in the PGD entry
for a PUD which results in the PUD pointed to by that entry to not be
encrypted.

When SEV is enabled, instruction pages and guest page tables are always treated
as private. All the DMA operations inside the guest must be performed on shared
memory. Since the memory encryption bit is controlled by the guest OS when it
is operating in 64-bit or 32-bit PAE mode, in all other modes the SEV hardware
forces the memory encryption bit to 1.

Support for SME and SEV can be determined through the CPUID instruction. The
CPUID function 0x8000001f reports information related to SME::

	0x8000001f[eax]:
		Bit[0] indicates support for SME
		Bit[1] indicates support for SEV
	0x8000001f[ebx]:
		Bits[5:0]  pagetable bit number used to activate memory
			   encryption
		Bits[11:6] reduction in physical address space, in bits, when
			   memory encryption is enabled (this only affects
			   system physical addresses, not guest physical
			   addresses)

If support for SME is present, MSR 0xc00100010 (MSR_AMD64_SYSCFG) can be used to
determine if SME is enabled and/or to enable memory encryption::

	0xc0010010:
		Bit[23]   0 = memory encryption features are disabled
			  1 = memory encryption features are enabled

If SEV is supported, MSR 0xc0010131 (MSR_AMD64_SEV) can be used to determine if
SEV is active::

	0xc0010131:
		Bit[0]	  0 = memory encryption is not active
			  1 = memory encryption is active

Linux relies on BIOS to set this bit if BIOS has determined that the reduction
in the physical address space as a result of enabling memory encryption (see
CPUID information above) will not conflict with the address space resource
requirements for the system.  If this bit is not set upon Linux startup then
Linux itself will not set it and memory encryption will not be possible.

The state of SME in the Linux kernel can be documented as follows:

	- Supported:
	  The CPU supports SME (determined through CPUID instruction).

	- Enabled:
	  Supported and bit 23 of MSR_AMD64_SYSCFG is set.

	- Active:
	  Supported, Enabled and the Linux kernel is actively applying
	  the encryption bit to page table entries (the SME mask in the
	  kernel is non-zero).

SME can also be enabled and activated in the BIOS. If SME is enabled and
activated in the BIOS, then all memory accesses will be encrypted and it
will not be necessary to activate the Linux memory encryption support.

If the BIOS merely enables SME (sets bit 23 of the MSR_AMD64_SYSCFG),
then memory encryption can be enabled by supplying mem_encrypt=on on the
kernel command line.  However, if BIOS does not enable SME, then Linux
will not be able to activate memory encryption, even if configured to do
so by default or the mem_encrypt=on command line parameter is specified.

Secure Nested Paging (SNP)
==========================

SEV-SNP introduces new features (SEV_FEATURES[1:63]) which can be enabled
by the hypervisor for security enhancements. Some of these features need
guest side implementation to function correctly. The below table lists the
expected guest behavior with various possible scenarios of guest/hypervisor
SNP feature support.

+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
| Feature Enabled | Guest needs   | Guest has     | Guest boot       |
| by the HV       | implementation| implementation| behaviour        |
+=================+===============+===============+==================+
|      No         |      No       |      No       |     Boot         |
|                 |               |               |                  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      No         |      Yes      |      No       |     Boot         |
|                 |               |               |                  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      No         |      Yes      |      Yes      |     Boot         |
|                 |               |               |                  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      Yes        |      No       |      No       | Boot with        |
|                 |               |               | feature enabled  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      Yes        |      Yes      |      No       | Graceful boot    |
|                 |               |               | failure          |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+
|      Yes        |      Yes      |      Yes      | Boot with        |
|                 |               |               | feature enabled  |
+-----------------+---------------+---------------+------------------+

More details in AMD64 APM[1] Vol 2: 15.34.10 SEV_STATUS MSR

Secure VM Service Module (SVSM)
===============================
SNP provides a feature called Virtual Machine Privilege Levels (VMPL) which
defines four privilege levels at which guest software can run. The most
privileged level is 0 and numerically higher numbers have lesser privileges.
More details in the AMD64 APM Vol 2, section "15.35.7 Virtual Machine
Privilege Levels", docID: 24593.

When using that feature, different services can run at different protection
levels, apart from the guest OS but still within the secure SNP environment.
They can provide services to the guest, like a vTPM, for example.

When a guest is not running at VMPL0, it needs to communicate with the software
running at VMPL0 to perform privileged operations or to interact with secure
services. An example fur such a privileged operation is PVALIDATE which is
*required* to be executed at VMPL0.

In this scenario, the software running at VMPL0 is usually called a Secure VM
Service Module (SVSM). Discovery of an SVSM and the API used to communicate
with it is documented in "Secure VM Service Module for SEV-SNP Guests", docID:
58019.

(Latest versions of the above-mentioned documents can be found by using
a search engine like duckduckgo.com and typing in:

  site:amd.com "Secure VM Service Module for SEV-SNP Guests", docID: 58019

for example.)
